
    CROQUET.

    AS PLAYED BY

    THE NEWPORT CROQUET CLUB.

    BY

    ONE OF THE MEMBERS.

    Sic Indus animo debet aliquando dari
    Ad cogitandum melior ut redeat tibi.

    PHOED., Lib. iii, Fab. 4.

    NEW YORK:
    SHELDON & COMPANY,

    498 & 500 BROADWAY.

    1865.

    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by

    SHELDON & CO.,

    In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District
    of New York.

    Stereotyped by
    SMITH & MCDOUGAL,
    84 Beekman-st.

    Printed by
    C.S. WESTCOTT & CO.,
    79 John-st.




PREFACE.


The increasing popularity of Croquet, and the deficiencies of the
existing manuals of the game, have encouraged me to give this little
book to the public. The treatise of Captain Mayne Reid, to which the
introduction of croquet in this country is mainly due, is deficient in
system and arrangement, and affords no intelligible determination to
many of the cases I have instanced in illustration of the rules of the
game. The manuals published in this country are still more faulty. The
rules afford no solution to half of the ambiguous cases that arise in
ordinary play; and some are guilty of the strange error of allowing the
"Roquet Croquet" to every ball--a liberty totally at variance with the
fundamental principles of the game, and which in the hands of strong
players would prolong the contest indefinitely, make victory depend
upon a single chance hit, and reduce the opportunities for generalship
and combination to a minimum. I have dwelt at some length upon the
"right of declining," and the "theory of double points;" principles
which, though hinted at by Captain Reid, are left rather obscure in his
book. Players will find that this power of economizing privileges adds
greatly to the interest of the game, and renders many a cunning plot and
counter-plot necessary.

The origin of this game is unknown. No man invented whist or chess, and
croquet like them seems to have been evolved by some process of nature,
as a crystal forms or a flower grows--perfect, in accordance with
eternal laws. There is in all these games a certain theory which
furnishes interpretations for all cases that arise in actual play. The
rules are grouped about a central principle. The mimic battles have a
unity, and are homogeneous in all their parts. If the rules are
indefinite or contradictory the game loses its distinctive character. If
the rules are accurate and rigidly enforced, croquet is a game of the
highest interest. I am informed by a scientific billiard player that
though croquet is inferior to billiards in affording opportunities for
delicate manipulation and manual dexterity, that it far excels that
elegant game in the field it opens for the exercise of the higher
qualities of combination and foresight. Whist exercises the memory and
the power of calculating probabilities; chess the imagination and the
faculty of abstract reasoning; but croquet, though it taxes these mental
qualities less, combines them with the delights of out-door exercise and
social enjoyment, fresh air and friendship--two things which are of all
others most effective in promoting happiness. Those who have been in the
habit of regarding croquet as a game for children may, perhaps, smile at
my enthusiasm; but let them procure a perfect ground, balls and mallets,
play half a dozen four-ball games in strict accordance with the rules,
and when they can claim to have mastered the game, they will acknowledge
themselves converts.

I have adopted the plan of giving first definitions, then rules, then
cases adjudged under the rules; as the common law consists of the
definitions of legal terms, the statement of legal maxims or principles,
and the reports of litigated causes. The laws are in substance those
adopted by the "Newport Croquet Club," and many of the cases given
actually occurred in play, and were settled in full bench after long and
animated discussion. I think the laws will not conflict with those of
Captain Reid, while I hope that they will be found more full and
accurate, and of more exact application. I cannot flatter myself that I
have provided for every possible ambiguous case; still, I hope that I
have indicated the solution to most of the questions that are likely to
arise in the course of a game.

I shall be very happy to receive suggestions from any lovers of the game
who may discover errors or imperfections; for why should not croquet as
well as chess have its literature.

                                           "J."

    NEWPORT, R.I., _July 7th, 1865_.




CONTENTS.


    CHAPTER I.
                                                         PAGE
    DEFINITIONS OF TECHNICAL TERMS                         9

    CHAPTER II.

    DESCRIPTION OF THE GROUND AND IMPLEMENTS              15

    CHAPTER III.

    DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING THE GAME                       22

    CHAPTER IV.

    THE RULES OF THE GAME                                 29

    CHAPTER V.

    HINTS TO BEGINNERS                                    51




CHAPTER I.

DEFINITIONS.


ARENA.--The space included by the boundaries of the croquet ground,
within which a ball driven out of it is entitled to be placed.

BLOW.--The stroke of the mallet. A blow opposed to a push.

BOOBY.--A ball that fails to run the first bridge.

BRIDGED BALL.--A ball that has run the first bridge.

CENTRAL BRIDGES.--Those in a line between the stakes.

CHIEFS.--The leaders of the sides, who strike for the first choice.

CONCUSSION.--The displacement of a ball by another ball.

CROQUET.--The title of the game. A privilege gained by making "roquet."
It consists in placing the playing ball in contact with the roqueted
ball, and on any side of it; holding it there with the foot, and
striking it with the mallet, by which means the other is driven in any
required direction.

CROQUETERIE.--The implements of the game--namely, balls, mallets, stakes
and bridges.

DEAD BALL.--A rover struck against the starting stake, and thereby
struck out of the game.

DOUBLE POINT.--Two points made on the same blow.

ENEMY.--A player on the opposite side.

FLANK BRIDGES.--Those on the right and left of a line between the
stakes.

FLINCH.--When in executing the "croquet" the playing ball escapes from
under the foot, it is said to "flinch."

FRONT OF A BRIDGE.--That side from which a ball must proceed in running
it; the side toward the starting stake for the first half round; the
side towards the turning stake for the last half round.

FRIENDS.--Players on the same side.

GRAND ROUND.--The grand round consists in running all the bridges, (the
central ones in both directions,) and tolling the turning stake, in
proper order; after completing which the ball becomes a rover.

HALF ROUND.--The first half round includes running the central bridges
and those on the left flank, and is to be made before tolling the stake;
the second half round includes the central bridges and those on the left
flank which are to be run in the reverse order between tolling and
striking out.

MISPLAY.--Playing out of proper tour; playing the ball of another
player, or continuing the tour after failing to make a point.

OBLIQUE BRIDGE.--A bridge accidentally out of perpendicular, either to
the horizon or to the line joining the stakes.

OVERRUNNING A BRIDGE.--A ball overruns its proper bridge when, in
attempting to run it, it passes it on one side.

PLACING A BALL.--Bringing it within the arena when driven out of it, or
removing a ball from a fixed obstacle.

POINT.--A blow by which a step on the round or a roquet is made, thereby
entitling the player to continuance of tour--that is, to another blow.

POSITION.--A ball is in position when it is in front of its proper
bridge, with a reasonable probability of running it on the next blow.
The position is good or bad according to the ease or difficulty of the
run.

PROPER BRIDGE.--The next "step on the round," the making of which
constitutes a point.

PUSH.--Shoving the ball with the mallet, allowed on some croquet-grounds
instead of a blow.

RE-ROQUET.--After roquetting a ball to roquet it again during the same
tour, a right acquired only by making a step on the round.

RICOCHET.--Two or more roquets made on the same blow.

ROQUET.--The contact of the playing ball with another ball under such
circumstances as to constitute a point; that is, provided both balls are
bridged balls at the time of contact, and roquet has not been made on
the same ball before in the same tour since the right to re-roquet has
been acquired.

ROQUET-CROQUET; CROQUET SANS PIED.--The privilege of the rover. It
differs from croquet in that the playing ball is not held with the foot,
so that when struck it follows the croquetted ball or diverges in
another direction.

ROVER.--A ball that has made the grand round, but not struck out.

RUNNING A BRIDGE.--Passing through the proper bridge from the front, or
completing such passage, one of the steps on the round, a "point," if
made by a blow of the mallet.

SIDE.--One of the two parties of players, of which the members play
alternately.

SPOT.--A point between the starting stake and the first bridge, one
mallet's length from the former; from which the play commences.

STARTING STAKE.--That near which the play commences, and the striking of
which by a rover puts it out.

STEP ON THE ROUND.--Running the proper bridge, or tolling the stake at
the proper time, which advances a ball on the grand round, and gives the
right to re-roquet.

STRIKING FOR FIRST CHOICE.--The usual method of deciding the first
choice, in making up the sides and the first play. Each chief places a
ball under the arch of the first bridge and plays at the stake. The ball
lying nearest the stake entitles the chief playing it to the first
choice of friends and the option of the first or second play.

STRIKING OUT.--Hitting the starting stake when a rover, putting a ball
out, and if the last of the side constituting the victory.

TOLLING THE STAKE.--Hitting the turning stake at the proper time; one of
the steps on the grand round.

TOUR OF PLAY.--The tour of a player or right to play, following the
order of the colors on the stake, and continuing as long as he makes a
point.

TURNING STAKE.--The stake to be tolled, opposite to the starting stake.




CHAPTER II.

THE GROUND AND CROQUETERIE.


The most important requisite for a croquet ground is smoothness of
surface. Very good sport may be had on a ground slightly inclined;
indeed a little practice will enable the players to make allowance for
the inclination, so as to play with as much accuracy as if the surface
were horizontal. But if the turf presents small inequalities, the
direction and force of the stroke can never be accurately estimated. If
the stroke is gentle, the ball may fall short or be turned aside. If the
stroke is forcible, the ball will bound along the ground, and may jump
entirely over another ball which it was intended to roquet. A croquet
ground can always be brought to the requisite degree of smoothness by
having the surface beaten with a spade after a rain; or, better still,
thoroughly rammed with a paver's mallet. Rolling is not so effective,
unless the ground is very soft or the roller very heavy. The size and
shape of the ground is a matter of much less importance. The boundaries
within which a ball can be placed should be traced or agreed upon; still
better permanently defined by a ditch or slight embankment; and should,
if possible, form a parallelogram of eighty feet by fifty. The turf
within them should be kept as short as possible. The best arrangement of
bridges for the four-ball game is that given in Figure I. For the six or
eight-ball game Figure II. is preferable. A ball meets with two kinds of
obstructions in making the "grand round"--it is obliged to pass through
all the bridges, and again it may be croquetted and driven out of its
course by an enemy. In the six or eight ball game, the dangers being
much increased, it is well to diminish the difficulties, or the contest
may be tediously protracted. This is accomplished by removing the
central bridge and straightening the course. The channel is less
tortuous, but "roving" privateers, clothed with "belligerent rights,"
are more frequently met, and the risks and excitement of the passage are
equalized in both cases.

[Illustration: NO. I. FOUR BALL ARRANGEMENT.]

[Illustration: NO. II. EIGHT BALL ARRANGEMENT.]

In the diagrams the dotted lines indicate the order in which the
bridges are to be run, and show the course of a ball making the "grand
round."

The balls should be perfect spheres, about three inches in diameter, the
size depending upon the weight of the wood from which they are made.
Maple or beech is a very good material, but the best are made from the
buttonwood or American sycamore. They should be boiled in linseed oil to
give them the requisite weight and firmness. If boiled too long,
however, they will become too heavy. Six ounces is about the proper
weight, and a light ball is infinitely preferable to a heavy one for
accurate play at long distances. Eight balls constitute a full set. They
must be painted different colors, as the individuality of each ball is
an important element in the game. As there is no necessity for the
exercise of great strength in croquet, a set of balls made from seasoned
wood and prepared as I have described ought to last a generation.

A variety of mallets should be provided, as different players prefer
different sizes. One of the surest hitters I have ever known uses a
mallet about fourteen inches long with a heavy head. The wood of the
apple tree is the best material for the heads, and straight-grained ash
for the handles. The standard handle is thirty-two inches long, one inch
in diameter at the upper end, and five-eighths of an inch at the lower,
tapering gradually. The head should be a cylinder about two inches in
diameter and four inches long. It is best to make the faces square; for
if they are convex, it renders it necessary to strike the ball exactly
with the centre of the mallet head to insure an accurate stroke.

The stakes should be about two feet long, and one and one-half inches in
diameter. At least one of them should have rings painted on it
corresponding to the colors of the balls. This is merely to aid in
recollecting the order of play.

Nine bridges are required in the four-ball arrangement, ten in the
other. Firkin hoops, or hickory withs, about as large as the ramrod of a
rifle, will answer the purpose very well. If soaked a day or two they
can easily be bent into the required shape. The best, however, are made
of three-eighths round iron. The span of the bridges should be rather
less than three times the diameter of a ball. Eight inches is enough. If
the ground is small so as to necessitate placing the bridges closer
than in the standard arrangement, the span should be narrowed, and "vice
versa," on the principle that too much difficulty protracts the game,
too little renders it devoid of interest. The height and form of the
arch is immaterial, but the pier or side of the bridge should be
straight for at least three inches from the ground, and the centre of
the arch from seven to nine inches high. The bridges should be driven
firmly into the ground, in a plane perpendicular to the horizon and to
the line joining the stakes. An inspection of the diagrams will furnish
all needful information as to position.




CHAPTER III.

MANNER OF PLAYING THE GAME.


The game of croquet may be played by any number of players up to eight.
If eight enter the game, each player must be provided with a mallet, and
each will play one ball. If a less number of persons play, eight balls
may still be used, one or more of the players playing two balls. In all
cases there should be two sides, or parties, each of course having the
same number of balls; and the balls, whether played by the same or
different persons, having their turns always in the same prescribed
order. An eight-ball or even a six-ball game is apt to be tedious, and
skilful players invariably give the preference to the four-ball game,
which may therefore be considered croquet _par eminence_. With more than
four balls the element of chance enters too largely, and the
combinations become too intricate, to be foreseen with any degree of
certainty. The true lover of croquet will no more be tempted into an
eight-ball game than a scientific chess-player will indulge in that
abnormal monstrosity "four-handed chess." Played with two balls only,
the game degenerates into a mere race. The four-ball game with two
players is preferred by many, though lacking the sociality which is one
of the charms of croquet. As the rules are the same in all cases, I
shall hereafter, for convenience of illustration, take it for granted
that there are four balls and four players. If the sides are not
otherwise made up, two of the players are selected as chiefs. They
strike for the first choice, (see definition); the one who wins it
chooses a friend, then the other, and so on till the sides are made up.
The winning chief plays first if he chooses, or, if not, the other chief
leads, and the winning chief plays second; then one of the friends of
the first player, and so on, the members of the two sides playing
alternately. The first player uses the ball the color of which is
highest on the stake, and the next takes the color immediately below. It
is usual to have the rings on the stake alternately some light and dark
color, so that the light colors form one side and the dark the other.
After leading, the function of the chief ceases, except in match games,
when he is allowed to direct the play of his side. At the commencement
of the game the first player places his ball upon the spot, and strikes
it with his mallet in the direction of the first bridge. If it run the
bridge--that is, pass completely through it, he has the right to another
blow; if not it is called a booby, and he must wait till the others have
played and his turn comes round again. Suppose, however, that he has run
the first bridge, and on his second blow runs the second bridge, he thus
takes another step on the "grand round," or makes another point, which
entitles him to still another blow. As it is generally impossible to run
the third bridge on the third blow, he now tries to get "position" for
his ball in front of the third bridge; but as he does not make a point
on this last blow, he is not entitled to continuance of tour. He
therefore stops, and the first player of the other side begins by
placing his ball upon the spot and attempting to run the first bridge.
If he runs it he has a little more latitude in his play, for he may now
make a point in two ways--either by hitting the other ball, provided it
is not a booby, or running his next bridge. Suppose he chooses to play
for the second bridge, and, having run it, plays at the other ball
already in position for the third bridge. If he succeeds in hitting it,
he is said to have roqueted it, and having thus made a point, may play
again and attempt the third bridge. But he has still another privilege;
he may take his ball up, place it by the side of the other ball, and
croquet it; after which he proceeds to play his ball from the position
in which he placed it, having retained it there by his foot during the
croquet. He will probably be in position for the third bridge. If he
runs it his tour still continues, and he may play for the next bridge,
or roquet the other ball again, which he may previously have croqueted,
into the proper position. His tour continues till he fails to make a
point, when the next player on the other side begins. After running the
first bridge, he acquires, of course, the right of roqueting the other
two balls. If he roquets an enemy's ball, he croquets it, if he wishes,
into a disadvantageous position. If he roquets a friend, he croquets his
ball into better position, or perhaps through its proper bridge. This
will constitute a step on the grand round for the friend's ball, and
will advance it as much as if it were driven through the bridge by the
mallet of its proper player. After roqueting a ball, however, a player
cannot roquet the same ball again until his own ball has made a step on
the grand round. He may drive his own ball against it, and perhaps
displace it by the concussion; but the hit does not constitute a roquet,
does not entitle to croquet, or to continuance of tour. After making a
step on the grand round, however, all his privileges are revived. After
all the players have had their tours in the order of the colors on the
stake, the first player takes his second tour, and so on. At the
beginning of each new tour the grand round is taken up again, and the
ball may make a point by making the "proper step on the round"--that is,
the one next in order to that last made--whether made by a stroke of the
mallet, by "concussion," or by croquet. Or it may make a point by
roqueting any of the other balls. In the last case it may play again,
either from the spot to which it has rolled or from the side of the
roqueted ball; or it may croquet it and then play, attempting the proper
step on the round, or roqueting another ball. If it has roqueted all the
balls, it can make a point only by running its bridge, or tolling the
stake, whichever may be the proper step; after which, as said before,
all its privileges are renewed.

Thus the game continues until one of the balls completes the grand
round, as explained in the diagrams. The last step is running the first
bridge in the reverse direction. The player making this takes up his
ball, unless he has been so unfortunate as to strike out on the same
blow; and places it on the spot whence he continues his tour as a rover,
namely, that of croqueting without the foot, or roquet-croqueting after
making a roquet. By this means he not only drives off the roqueted ball
but follows it with his own, or forces them in divergent directions. If
he is skillful, he may leave his own ball near one of the other balls,
which he may then proceed to roquet, and succeeding in this, to croquet,
or to roquet-croquet, whichever may be most advantageous. As he has no
bridges to run he can never re-roquet, and hence after he has roqueted
and croqueted all the other balls his tour terminates at the next blow.

As soon as a rover touches the starting stake it becomes a dead ball and
must be removed from the field. It makes no difference whether it
strike out by its own act, or is struck out by its partner, or by one of
the enemy. The latter catastrophe will be of frequent occurrence unless
perpetually guarded against, for the partner or partners are thereby
left to fight against superior numbers. When all the balls of a side
succeed in striking the stake the game is over, and the side has won the
victory.

With this brief outline of the game, the reader is referred for details
to the chapter on the rules.




CHAPTER IV.

THE RULES.


1. _Each ball must first be placed upon the spot and played from
thence._

A booby does not return to the spot, but continues to play as a booby,
without the right to roquet or be roquetted until it is bridged. Hence a
booby has but one blow unless that blow bridge it. It may hit another
ball and be hit, but the contact never constitutes a point.

2. _The mallet must be used with one hand, and the stroke must be a
blow._

With balls and mallets of the standard size, there is no necessity for
using both hands. It is difficult to draw the precise line between a
legitimate blow and a push. In every blow the mallet follows the ball a
little, for it takes a small interval of time for the momentum of the
mallet to transfer itself to the ball; but in the push a new impulse is
given to the ball every instant, and this may act unfairly; for
instance, a ball is to be roqueted at a distance of six inches or a
foot. If the playing ball is pushed until it reach the other ball, the
latter is virtually moved by the mallet as much as in the
roquet-croquet, instead of being moved by concussion merely. This would
be inconsistent with the theory of the game. Again, a ball is in contact
with the pier of its proper bridge so that it cannot run it by a blow.
If a push be allowed, it might be pushed into position, and then pushed
through by slightly changing the direction of the mallet. It would thus
be played in a curved line. It may be objected to this rule that the
vicinity of the stake or the piers of a bridge may render a blow
impossible; but a little attention will obviate the necessity of playing
in constrained positions.

3. _The stroke is delivered when an audible sound is made or the ball
moved._

The habit of giving the ball a little preparatory tap should be avoided.
It is allowed to strike the pier of a bridge or the stake with the view
of moving the ball by concussion; but if the ball do not move the blow
is complete, and the error in judgment cannot be rectified.

4. _The tour of a ball continues as long as it makes a point, and
terminates with the first blow on which no point is made._

5. _To make a point a ball must either make a step on the grand round or
roquet another ball._

Croquet is not considered a point, because it is not a play of the
player's own ball but a privilege, after which the tour is continued by
virtue of the roquet.

6. _Each ball before striking out must make every step on the grand
round in the prescribed order, either directly by a blow of the mallet,
or indirectly by concussion or croquet._

"Directly by a blow of the mallet"--that is, during the ball's own tour,
whether proceeding from the mallet immediately, or by rebound from a
fixed object or the person of an enemy. "Indirectly," not during its own
tour, when moved by another ball or accidentally.

7. _Making the proper step on the round, but no other, constitutes a
point, or entitles to continuance of tour._

A step made indirectly is no point either for the playing ball or the
other, though the latter is advanced on its round.

8. _The bridges must be run from the front--that is, from the side
towards the starting stake for the first half-round, and from the other
side for the second half-round._

9. _A bridge is not run unless the ball pass completely through it._

To decide this in a doubtful case, place the mallet handle against the
piers in front; if any part of the ball project beyond the plane of the
bridge it will become evident. The ball is then said to rest under the
arch of the bridge.

10. _A ball resting under the arch of a bridge and having come from the
front makes no point, but is in position to run the bridge._

The run may now be completed by concussion, or, if the ball remain till
next tour, by a blow of the mallet.

11. _A ball resting under the arch of a bridge, and having come from the
reverse side, is not in position to run it._

To decide a doubtful case, place the mallet handle against the piers on
the reverse side.

CASE.--A ball was in position under the arch of a bridge but is driven
back, and afterwards gains the same position from the reverse side. Is
it in position, since it once reached that point from the front? No. The
run of the bridge must be continuous, though not necessarily at one
blow.

12. _If a ball pass completely through a bridge and rebound or roll
back, the run remains good._

13. _If a ball pass completely through a bridge in the reverse
direction, and rebound or roll back under the arch, it is in position._

14. _If a bridge be oblique any player may adjust it, unless a ball be
under the arch._

That is, it must first be decided whether the ball has run the bridge or
is in position.

15. _The stake may be tolled from any direction and by the slightest
perceptible touch._

An audible sound will be evidence of the tolling; but when it is so near
that the sound cannot be distinguished from that of the mallet, it must
be seen to change its direction.

16. _A ball roquets another when it comes in contact with it from a blow
of the mallet; provided both balls are bridged at the time of contact,
and the playing ball has not roqueted the other ball before during the
same tour since making a step on the round._

CASE.--A booby hits a booby and both pass through the first bridge; can
it croquet? No. It is not a roquet unless they remain in contact after
passing through the bridge. It must roquet again.

17. _A ball already in contact with another ball does not roquet unless
it move it perceptibly._

To do this it must, of course, play in a direction less than ninety
degrees from a line joining the centres of the balls.

18. _A ball can acquire the right to re-roquet--that is, to roquet the
same ball again during the same tour--only by making a step on the
round._

A ball may hit another ball twice or more during the same tour, and
between two consecutive bridges, or between the bridge and the turning
stake, and move it, each time by concussion; but only one (not
necessarily the first) contact is a valid roquet.

19. _A roquet, but no hit which does not fulfil all the conditions of a
roquet, constitutes a point, and entitles to continuance of tour._

20. _A roquet, but no other hit, entitles to the privileges of croquet._

21. _The croquet may be declined, and the tour continued from the spot
to which the player's ball has rolled, or from the side of the roqueted
ball._

The privilege of the croquet thus consists of two parts. First, the
option between the final position of the playing ball and a new position
in contact with the roqueted ball, and on any side of it. Second, the
croquet proper. The second only, or both parts of this privilege may be
declined; but this must be distinguished from "declining roquet"
afterward mentioned.

CASE.--A ball not a rover having roqueted another ball, is placed in
contact with it, and, without using the foot, the player drives them
both in any direction, as in roquet-croquet. Is this allowed? Yes. The
croquet was declined and the stroke was a common blow; but the other
ball, being merely moved by concussion, (since it was previously
roqueted,) the tour cannot be continued unless a point was made at the
same time.

22. _If after a roquet the playing ball be taken up or moved from its
place, it must continue its tour from the side of the roqueted ball._

CASE.--A ball roquets another ball, driving the latter by concussion
through the playing ball's proper bridge; remaining, however, in
position to run the bridge. The player begins to move the ball, but on
second thought concludes to run the bridge. Can he claim to have moved
it by accident? No, even if it was not taken up from the ground; for it
may be presumed that it was done with the intention to croquet. Whether
he croquet or not he must take position by the side of the other, and
has lost his opportunity to run the bridge. So, too, if he takes
position under the arch of the bridge he is not in position to run it,
for the space over which the ball is carried is no part of its course.

23. _The croquet must be executed before continuance of tour._

CASE.--A ball roquets another and on the same blow runs its bridge; the
croquet is then executed. Does the run hold good. Yes, at the player's
option. CASE.--Under the same circumstances the playing ball is taken to
the side of the roqueted ball. Can it re-roquet it on the ground that it
has run a bridge since the roquet? No. The right to re-roquet must be
acquired _after_ croqueting or moving the playing ball. But the playing
ball might have re-roqueted from its final position, declining the first
croquet.

24. _The croquet is completed when the mallet makes a perceptible blow
against the croqueting ball; but if the mallet altogether miss it, the
blow may be repeated._

The blow is perceptible if an audible sound is made, whether the
croqueted ball move or not.

CASE.--A player in croqueting claims to have hit his foot; the croqueted
ball, however, has moved from its place. Can he restore it and repeat
the blow? No. The claim should not be allowed, for it is impossible to
tell in such cases whether the ball was hit or only the foot. If it be
necessary to get the other ball out of the way, he must drive it by
concussion with his own.

25. _If the player's ball flinch in executing the croquet he forfeits
the remainder of his tour, and no point made by a flinching ball is
valid._

CASE.--A flinching ball rests under the arch of its proper bridge,
having come from the front. Is it in position? No. If the complete run
is illegal, the partial run is also, as in the case of moving a ball to
croquet.

26. _If a ball be driven out of the arena, it must be brought within it,
and placed one foot from the boundary at the nearest point._

This rule is on the supposition that the arena is of the standard
dimensions or something near it. If from the imperfections of the ground
the boundaries at any place approach too near the stakes or bridges,
this rule must be modified so that a ball shall not materially alter its
position with reference to the bridges, stakes, or other balls. Under
the same limitations it may be removed one foot from a tree or other
obstacle. The ball should be placed immediately.

CASE.--A's ball is played against a tree. If B roquet it he cannot
croquet it, or play his ball afterwards to advantage. Can he compel A to
place his ball? Yes; but not so that B's position after the roquet shall
be improved. If this were not so ruled, an obstacle would often be made
a refuge. Cases of this kind often arise on imperfect grounds. They must
be settled like cases in equity; as fairly as possible for each side,
and so that neither can take advantage of technicalities.

27. _If a player misplay, and the enemy challenge him before allowing
the play of another ball, they have the option of replacing the
misplaying ball and any which may have been moved in their former
positions, or allowing any or all of them to remain in the positions to
which they have rolled. And no point made by a misplaying ball, if
properly challenged, is valid, except at their option._

The option belongs to the enemy of the players and not of the ball. If
the challenge be made as soon as possible, though another ball is
played at the same time, the requirements of the rule are satisfied.

CASE.--A misplaying ball runs a bridge after croqueting its partner
through his proper bridge. The enemy challenge and elect to leave both
balls in their final position. Can they compel them to renew their
bridges? The ball of the misplayer must re-run its bridge; but any other
ball has made the step unless it is restored to its former position. The
latter is regarded as accidentally displaced, and follows the rule
provided for that case. If the misplay consist of illegal continuance of
tour, of course the penalty does not extend to the correct play which
preceded it.

28. _If a player misplay, whether with his own or another ball, he
forfeits his next tour._

When a misplay is detected the play is stopped, and the damages under
the preceding rules taken, and the player who should have played takes
his tour, and so on, omitting the misplayer's next tour. Thus if A play
in his partner C's tour, the order will be C, D, B, C, etc. If A play
without right to continuance of tour, the order will be B, C, D, B, C,
etc.

29. _If a misplay is not challenged until the play of another ball has
commenced, the play stands, but the misplayer loses his first tour after
the discovery._

CASE.--D plays after A and is challenged, but shows that A misplayed in
his partner's tour. Has D misplayed? No. He played in his proper tour. C
has lost his tour through neglect, and A has anticipated a tour, while
the other side has lost the right to exact the penalty for A's misplay,
the order of play is B, A, D, B, C, etc.

CASE.--While B is playing it is discovered that A misplayed. Is B's play
correct? Yes. B naturally plays after A. B finishes his play, and the
order of play is B, A, B, C, D, B, etc. Here A's tour is merely
transposed, and B gains an extra tour, so that in both cases the
misplaying side loses one tour. If a player misplays in the tour of an
enemy and is not challenged in time, the misplayer and the neglectful
party will each lose a tour. Thus if D omit his tour the order will be
C, A, B, C, D, B, etc. If A play without right to continuance of tour,
so as in effect to take two tours, and it is discovered after B begins
to play, A merely anticipates his next turn, and the order is A, A, B,
C, D, B, etc.

30. _If a misplay has taken place so that the balls are playing in a
wrong order, but the original misplayer cannot be discovered, the
playing ball must finish its tour and the right order be taken up._

A case of frequent occurrence in the four-ball game. The sides are still
playing alternately, but in an inverted order, A, D, C, B. A misplay has
evidently been made, but none of the subsequent players can be
convicted, because each has followed his partner after the proper
interval; hence no penalty can be exacted on either side. If two
partners are playing in succession, the last always misplays; and, if
detected before the next play, must suffer the full penalty, and any
previous player in the same circumstances loses his next turn.

31. _If a ball be played before the preceding ball has finished or
abandoned its tour, the enemy have the option of replacing the ball to
take its tour after the other has finished, or letting the play stand as
the player's next tour._

This case is excluded from the definition of misplay, and the penalty
exacted is less. As will be seen by the next rule, the ball prematurely
played will have had but one blow. If it was a good one the enemy will
have the ball replaced; if a poor one they will let it stand; and if an
easy point has been made, the player loses the rest of his tour, as in
misplay, except that if a step on the round is made it is valid.

32. _A player abandons his tour if he allows the next player to make two
blows before challenging him, or make use of words or actions implying
that he has finished his tour._

As calling the name of a player or color of the ball. Of course it is
implied that a tour abandoned cannot be resumed.

CASE.--A seems to abandon his tour, B begins to play, and C reminds A of
his right to continuance of tour. Has A abandoned his tour? Yes, if he
had not intended to play until he was reminded, or acted so as to convey
such an impression.

33. _A ball accidentally displaced may be replaced, or allowed to
remain, at the option of the enemy of the player who caused the
accident._

A ball moved under the foot in croqueting, but not flinching, is
accidentally displaced.

34. _If a ball accidentally displaced make a step on the round, the step
is valid unless the ball be replaced._

In the same case the position is good if it pass under the arch of a
bridge from the front.

35. _If a ball in motion be interrupted by one of the players, it may
rest at the point of interruption, or be carried to the most distant
part of the arena in the direction in which it was moving, at the option
of the enemy of the player causing the interruption._

If a croqueted ball is interrupted, the croquet may be repeated.

36. _A player may decline any point made by himself, and play precisely
as if the point had not been made._

Of course if no other point is made on the same blow the tour is
finished. The application of the principle is connected with double
points. If a single roquet is declined, the effect is the same as if the
croquet and continuance of tour were declined; but if a step on the
round is declined, it remains the proper step and must be made again,
and the tour ceases. If the player wishes to adopt this course he must
signify that he declines the run or toll, or he will be presumed to have
declined continuance of tour merely. Striking out is not a point, and of
course cannot be declined.

CASE.--A ball passes through its bridge and recoils under the arch. Can
the player decline the run, leaving the ball in position? No. If it ran
the bridge, it passes under the arch in the wrong direction in
recoiling. So also if the bridge declined is the second of two
consecutive ones run, or a single blow--a case more likely to occur, as
continuance of tour is then retained by virtue of the first run.

37. _If a player decline one of two points made on the same blow, he may
continue his tour by virtue of the other._

He should signify which one he intends to decline; and unless he does
so, either by words or by the course of play, he may be presumed not to
have declined either.

38. _A step on the round made and declined must be made again, and when
made constitutes a point._

For instance, a ball makes roquet upon another ball, and accidentally
glances through its own bridge. If it should be in position after
croqueting, it may prefer to decline the run and make it again. It must
be remembered that it is not in position if placed under the arch to
croquet, and that the roquet must have been legitimate at the time of
contact, otherwise the run is the only point made, for the right to
re-roquet cannot be antedated.

CASE.--A ball makes roquet and runs a bridge at the same shot. After
croqueting, he attempts to run the bridge and fails. Can he adopt the
previous run? No. The attempt to run the bridge shows that he elected to
decline the bridge. If he wishes to play in the direction of the bridge
without declining he should signify his election, and then an accidental
run will not constitute a point. If he plays in another direction, the
bridge is not declined unless he so signify. He has the option at the
time, but must make his choice at once; and if he says nothing before he
plays, he is committed to that alternative which his play seems
naturally to indicate.

39. _A step on the round made by a ball through concussion, croquet, or
roquet-croquet from another ball, cannot be declined, and the next step
becomes proper._

40. _A step on the round made by flinch, accident, or misplay, is valid
or not at the option of the enemy of the party in fault, who must make
their decision at once._

In case of accident or displace through a misplaying ball, it depends
upon whether the ball is left or replaced. In case of the misplayer's
ball, or a flinching ball, the option is with the enemy. In the cases of
Rule 39 there is no option, and in Rule 36 it rests with the player
himself.

41. _If a ball makes two successive steps on the round with one blow of
the mallet, and does not decline the latter, it may take ground up to a
standard mallet's length before continuing its tour._

The first step cannot be declined from the nature of the case; the
second may, but then there is no ground for the premium. The second
point will be declined if it is possible to make very good position for
the second bridge by roquet, or to glance off from the stake to
advantage. If the mallet's length allows a ball to take ground on the
reverse side of its proper bridge this will not count as a run, nor will
the ball be in position if placed under the arch. Up to a mallet's
length of course includes everything less.

42. _A step on the round is not declined if it be made the ground for
continuance of tour, re-roquet, or taking ground under the last two
rules, and in such case it cannot be made again._

CASE.--A having already roqueted B's ball, can he decline the run? If he
does the hit is no roquet, and no point has been made.

CASE.--A runs a bridge and roquets a ball. The two balls rest in such
relative positions that A can roquet the same ball back through the
bridge. Can he, after doing this, re-run the bridge? Not on that tour;
for if he continues his tour, the second hit must have been a roquet;
the roquet on the first blow must have been declined; therefore the
bridge could not have been declined. Or, if the bridge was declined, the
first hit was a roquet and the second no point; therefore his tour is at
an end.

43. _A roquet made and declined may be made again during the same tour,
although the right to re-roquet has not been acquired, and when so made
it constitutes a point._

The first hit was not a roquet if really declined. (See Rule 45.) A ball
may be hit and moved by concussion before a roquet as well as after one.
Thus if a step on the round and a roquet be made on the same blow, the
player may at once croquet the roqueted ball, or roquet it again
immediately or after other roquets. Not croqueting the ball is evidence
enough of having declined, as there could never be any advantage in
declining the croquet and not the roquet, if it can properly be
declined.

44. _A ball making ricochet--that is, roqueting several balls on the
same blow--may croquet them all in the order of the roquets._

Any one of the roquets may be declined and made again after croqueting
the other balls in their proper order. Not croqueting is sufficient
evidence of declining; but if none are croqueted, and the ball is not
moved to the side of any one, the player must declare which he means to
decline. As soon as a step on the round is made, it no longer makes any
difference whether a roquet was declined or not.

CASE.--A ball makes roquet on two balls simultaneously. Can it croquet
them both? Yes, and the player should have the option of either order.

45. _A roquet is not declined if it is made the ground for continuance
of tour, croquet, or playing from the side of the roqueted ball; and in
such case the same ball cannot be roqueted again during the same tour
until the right to re-roquet has been acquired._

46. _A ball running the last bridge by a direct blow of the mallet must
be carried to the spot and played from thence as a rover, unless it
strike out on the same blow._

The ball in this last case passes over the spot, and thus of itself
complies with the condition and becomes a rover, after which it may
strike out. Hence, also, if it does strike out, the bridge cannot be
declined so as to save the ball.

CASE.--A ball runs the last bridge and roquets a ball on the same blow.
Can it croquet? Not unless the bridge is declined, otherwise it must be
placed on the spot immediately.

47. _A ball running the last bridge otherwise than by a direct blow of
the mallet becomes a rover, but must be played from its final position
like any other ball._

48. _A rover having no bridges to run can never re-roquet._

A rover can make no more points than the number of balls in the game,
and can have but one more blow.

49. _A rover, but no other ball, may roquet-croquet a roqueted ball
instead of croqueting it._

If the player, however, elect to use the foot, and his ball flinch, he
must suffer the penalty. If in flinching the rover strike the starting
stake, he is out if the enemy so decide.

50. _If a rover in roquet-croqueting hit another ball, it may accept or
decline the roquet._

It is entitled to another blow after roquet-croquet at any rate;
therefore the roquet is not necessary to give continuance of tour.

51. _A rover fails to roquet-croquet if the other ball is not moved, and
the tour terminates unless another ball is roqueted on the same blow._

The blow not being a roquet-croquet, a point must be made to entitle to
continuance of tour. A roquet-croquet is precisely like a roquet when
the balls are in contact. (See Rule 17 and remarks.)

52. _A rover is struck out whenever it touches the starting stake,
except when in case of accident or misplay the enemy of the party in
fault decide otherwise._




CHAPTER V.

HINTS TO BEGINNERS.


1. Leave your ball as far from your enemy and as near your friend as
possible.

2. If you are in advance, help your friend; if you are behind, call upon
him to help you.

3. Recollect that position directly under the arch of your proper bridge
enables you to command all the field in front of it. You can run the
bridge and leave your own ball near any other you wish to croquet, as
the run gives you another shot. It is many times advantageous to decline
making any stroke from such position, and wait until you see an
opportunity to do execution among the enemy.

4. Take pains and exercise judgment on every stroke.

5. If you are a rover, leave yourself close to your friend. He can then
croquet you towards the enemy who played last, whom you can afterwards
demolish with impunity.

6. Play strictly according to rule; apply the laws rigidly, but be
liberal in settling disputed questions of fact.

7. Do not attempt difficult shots except in desperate circumstances.

8. If the enemy have a rover, make every effort to put it out. One of
you can then watch the remaining enemy while the other finishes the
round. Your partner then relieves the guard while you make your bridges.
The most desperate games can often be thus redeemed.

9. Never despair because you are behind. The game is never out till it
is played out.

       *       *       *       *       *

    _Books Published by Sheldon & Company_


    NEW JUVENILE BOOKS,
    _To be ready early in the coming Fall._


    A NEW SERIES BY AUNT FANNY,
    Author of "Nightcap," "Mitten," and "Pet Books."

    THE POP-GUN STORIES.

    _In 6 vols. 16mo., beautifully illustrated._

    I.--POP-GUNS.
    II.--ONE BIG POP-GUN.
    III.--ALL SORTS OF POP-GUNS.
    IV.--FUNNY POP-GUNS.
    V.--GRASSHOPPER POP-GUNS.
    VI.--POST-OFFICE POP-GUNS.

Aunt Fanny is one of the most successful writers for children in this
country, as is attested by the very wide sale her previous books have
had, and we feel sure that the mere announcement of this new series will
attract the attention of her host of admirers.


A NEW SERIES BY T.S. ARTHUR, Author of "Household Library," and
"Arthur's Juvenile Library."

HOME STORIES.

_3 vols., 16mo., fully illustrated._

LIST OF VOLUMES.

    HIDDEN WINGS.
    SOWING THE WIND.
    SUNSHINE AT HOME.

    The name of this Author is a sufficient Guarantee of the excellence
    of the Series.


    ROLLO'S TOUR IN EUROPE.

    BY JACOB ABBOTT,
    Author of the "Rollo Books," "Florence Stories," "American
    Histories," &c., &c.

    ORDER OF THE VOLUMES.

    ROLLO ON THE ATLANTIC.
    ROLLO IN PARIS.
    ROLLO IN SWITZERLAND.
    ROLLO IN LONDON.
    ROLLO ON THE RHINE.
    ROLLO IN SCOTLAND.
    ROLLO IN GENEVA.
    ROLLO IN HOLLAND.
    ROLLO IN NAPLES.
    ROLLO IN ROME.

Each volume fully illustrated.

_Price per vol., 90 cents._

Mr. Abbott is the most successful writer of books for the young in this,
or perhaps, any other country. "ROLLO'S TOUR IN EUROPE," is by far the
greatest success of any of Mr. Abbott's works.

_From the New York Observer._

"Mr. Abbott is known to be a pure, successful and useful writer for the
young and old. He is also the most popular Author of juvenile books now
living." */


PETER PARLEY'S OWN STORY.

From the Personal Narrative of the late SAMUEL G. GOODRICH (Peter
Parley).

1 vol. 16mo, illustrated, price $1.25.


CHILDREN'S SAYINGS; OR, EARLY LIFE AT HOME.

By CAROLINE HADLEY. With Illustrations, by WALTER CRANE.

1 vol. square 16mo, price 90 cents.


STORIES OF OLD.

OLD TESTAMENT SERIES.

By CAROLINE HADLEY.

1 vol. 12mo, Illustrated, price $1.25.


STORIES OF OLD.

NEW TESTAMENT SERIES.

By CAROLINE HADLEY.

1 vol. 12mo, Illustrated, price $1.25.


ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL.

A series of volumes containing Rose Morton's Journal for the several
months of the year.

Each volume Illustrated, 18mo, 45 cents.

There are now ready,

    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR JANUARY.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR FEBRUARY.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR MARCH.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR APRIL.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR MAY.


ABBOTT'S AMERICAN HISTORY.

A Series of American Histories for Youth, by JACOB ABBOTT.

To be completed in Eight Volumes, 18mo, price 1 dollar each. Each volume
complete in itself.

Each volume will be illustrated with numerous Maps and Engravings, from
original designs, by F.O.C. Darley, J.R. Chapin, G. Perkins, Charles
Parsons, H.W. Herrick, E.F. Beaulieu, H.L. Stephens, and others.

This Series, by the well-known author of the "ROLLO BOOKS," "ROLLO'S
TOUR IN EUROPE," "HARPER'S SERIES OF EUROPEAN HISTORIES," "THE FLORENCE
STORIES," &c., will consist of the following volumes:

    1. ABORIGINAL AMERICA. (Now ready.)
    2. DISCOVERY OF AMERICA. (Now ready.)
    3. SOUTHERN COLONIES. (Now ready.)
    4. THE NORTHERN COLONIES. (Now ready.)
    5. WARS OF THE COLONIES. (Now ready.)
    6. THE REVOLT OF THE COLONIES. (Ready in Sept.)
    7. REVOLUTION. (Ready in November.)
    8. WASHINGTON.

_NOTICES OF THE INITIAL VOLUME._

_From the Boston Traveller._

"The most excellent publication of the kind ever undertaken."

_From the Boston Advertiser._

"The illustrations are well designed and executed."

_From the Boston Post._

"One of the most useful of the many good and popular books of which Mr.
Abbott is the author."

_From the Philadelphia North American._

"It is indeed a very vivid and comprehensive presentation of the
physical aspect and aboriginal life visible on this continent, before
the discovery by white men."

_From the Troy Whig._

"Mr Abbot's stories have for years been the delight of thousands."


PETER PARLEY'S OWN STORY.

From the Personal Narrative of the late SAMUEL G. GOODRICH (Peter
Parley).

1 vol. 16mo, illustrated, price $1.25.


CHILDREN'S SAYINGS; OR, EARLY LIFE AT HOME.

By CAROLINE HADLEY. With Illustrations, by WALTER CRANE.

1 vol. square 16mo, price 90 cents.


STORIES OF OLD.

OLD TESTAMENT SERIES.

By CAROLINE HADLEY.

1 vol. 12mo, Illustrated, price $1.25.


STORIES OF OLD.

NEW TESTAMENT SERIES.

By CAROLINE HADLEY.

1 vol. 12mo, Illustrated, price $1.25.


ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL.

A series of volumes containing Rose Morton's Journal for the several
months of the year.

Each volume Illustrated, 18mo, 45 cents.

There are now ready,

    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR JANUARY.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR FEBRUARY.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR MARCH.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR APRIL.
    ROSE MORTON'S JOURNAL FOR MAY.


THE ROLLO STORY BOOKS.

By JACOB ABBOTT.

    Trouble on the Mountain,
    Causey Building,
    Apple Gathering,
    The Two Wheelbarrows,
    Blueberrying,
    The Freshet,
    Georgie,
    Rollo in the Woods,
    Rollo's Garden,
    The Steeple Trap,
    Labor Lost,
    Lucy's Visit.

12 vols. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated. Price, per set, $4.50


THE FLORENCE STORIES.

By JACOB ABBOTT.

    Vol. 1.--Florence and John. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 2.--Grimkie. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 3.--The Isle of Wight. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 4.--The Orkney Islands. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 5.--The English Channel. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 6.--Florence's Return. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.

Price of each volume $1.00.

_From the Boston Journal._

"Mr. Abbott is always an entertaining writer for the young, and this
story seems to us to contain more that is really suggestive and
instructive than other of his recent productions. Florence and John are
children who pursue their studies at home, under the care of their
mother, and in the progress of the tale many useful hints are given in
regard to home instruction. The main educational idea which runs through
all Mr. Abbott's works, that of developing the capacities of children so
as to make them self-reliant, is conspicuous in this."

_From the New York Observer._

"Mr. Abbott is known to be a pure, successful and useful writer for the
young and old. He is also the most popular author of juvenile books now
living."

_From the Boston Traveller._

"No writer of children's books, not even the renowned Peter Parley has
ever been so successful as Abbott."


THE OAKLAND STORIES.

By GEORGE B. TAYLOR.

    Vol. 1.--Kenny. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 2.--Cousin Guy. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.
    Vol. 3.--Claiborne. 18mo. Cloth. Illustrated.

Price of each volume 90 cents.

_From the Troy Whig._

"The writer, although by no means an imitator of Jacob Abbott, shows a
good deal of talent in the same field."

_From the Boston Journal._

"While in general this story resembles Mr. Abbott's, it is superior to
some of that author's later works. It is marked by his best
characteristics--the easy, natural dialogue, wholesome, moral and
religious tone, and simple explanatory style, without being tiresome in
repetition. It describes home scenes and suggests home amusements."


THE ROLLO BOOKS.

By JACOB ABBOTT.

    Rollo Learning to Talk,
    Rollo Learning to Read,
    Rollo at Work,
    Rollo at Play,
    Rollo at School,
    Rollo's Vacation,
    Rollo's Experiments,
    Rollo's Museum,
    Rollo's Travels,
    Rollo's Correspondence,
    Rollo's Philosophy, Water,
    Rollo's Philosophy, Air,
    Rollo's Philosophy, Fire,
    Rollo's Philosophy, Sky.

14 vols. Illustrated, uniform style. 16mo.  Cloth, each 80 cents

14 vols., uniform style. 18mo., cheap edition " each 60 cents


THE BRIGHTHOPE SERIES.

By J.T. TROWBRIDGE.

    The Old Battle Ground,
    Father Brighthope,
    Hearts and Faces,
    Iron Thorpe,
    Burr Cliff.

5 vols. 18mo. in cloth, gilt back, uniform. Price $4 00

_From the Boston Transcript._

"Mr. Trowbridge has never written anything that was not popular, and
each new work has added to his fame. He has a wonderful faculty as a
portrayer of New England characteristics, and New England scenes."

_From the Salem Register._

"Mr. Trowbridge will find many welcomers to the field of authorship as
often as he chooses to enter it, and to leave as pleasant a record
behind him as the story of "Father Brighthope." The "Old Battle Ground"
is worthy of his reputation as one of the very best portrayers of New
England character and describers of New England scenes."


THE GELDART SERIES.

By Mrs. THOMAS GELDART.

6 vols. 16mo. Illustrated by JOHN GILBERT.

Price of each 60 cents.

    Daily Thoughts for a Child,
    Truth is Everything,
    Sunday Morning Thoughts,
    Sunday Evening Thoughts,
    Emilie the Peacemaker,
    Stories of Scotland.

_From the Boston Register._

"These charming volumes are the much admired Geldart Series of books for
the young, which have established a very enviable reputation in England
for their wholesome moral tendency. They are beautifully printed 16mo
volumes, with gilt backs, and are sold at 50 cents each. There are five
volumes in the series, and they will form a very choice addition to a
youth's library."

_From the Worcester Palladium._

"What children read they often long retain; therefore it is desirable
that their books should be of a high moral tone. In this respect Mrs.
Geldart has few equals as an author, and we hope that her works will be
found in every child's library."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Croquet, by Anonymous

